welcome to slash forward
this video starts what will become saw
fridays
up until the release of spiral on may
14th be sure to hit the like button if
you fancy yourself a puzzle master of
sorts
to start i'll unpack the storyline to
see what we can learn
let's get to it we open on a man taking
a tubby he wakes up suddenly and in his
thrashing his tootsie snags the plug
causing an unknown object to drain out
with the water
as is the case with most bath naps he
concludes by
shouting for help and finding himself
chained to a pipe as he continues in
this way a calm raspy voice calls out
gently kissing his ear and letting him
know his efforts are futile
no point in yelling i already tried when
this
unseen partner finally locates a light
switch the full depth of their situation
finally comes into view just a pair of
shackled men
destined to be bros in a dirty bathroom
with an open floor plan and an
apparent self-inflicted gunshot victim
on the floor between them
for me that's just wednesday dr lawrence
gordon introduces himself
hoping to build a rapport and learn some
info unfortunately
adam only remembers going to bed and
waking up here and the doctor similarly
only remembers being on his way home
from work before waking so now the two
roomies have to reflect on why they may
be here and
since they're not dead what their
kidnapper must want from them then the
boys discover they're twinning as they
each pull evidence pouches with mini
tapes out of their slacks
with a little ingenuity and a heaping
dose of sheer luck
they soon acquired the tape player
adam's tape is mostly goading him about
his pathetic
voyeuristic life informing him that
today he may feel free to die
or actually do something about it in
contrast to this the doctor's tape tasks
him with killing adam by 6 pm
in order to earn his freedom and the
freedom of his two closest ladies
it also identifies the third man as an
unfortunate soul with so much poison
coursing through his veins
he had little choice but to take control
of his fate by his own hand
the ever observant doctor also notices a
faint whisper in the background of the
tape and cranks it up to hear the phrase
follow your heart he then identifies the
poop heart present on the toilet tank
failing to notice the stark literal
nature of the clues
adam dives into the bowl finding ancient
layers of doo doo and various
consistencies
then upon taking a peek into the tank he
finds a bag with a couple of hacksaws in
it they get to thrusting but the blades
are too dull to cut through the heavy
chains
adam's saw quickly breaks and he sends
it into the mirror dr
gordon then comes to the slow
realization that these implements are
intended for the feet
not the chain with these few bits of
premise now established
lawrence is starting to notice some
similarities between their situation
and the circumstances surrounding some
other elaborate killings for which he
was investigated as a suspect
so we flashed back to five months prior
where we meet up with police detectives
investigating a crime scene in which a
man is wrapped up in a cage maze of
razor wire
his tape reveals that after a failed
attempt on his own life he's being
tested to verify how badly he wants to
live
it appears so badly that he rushed it
and killed himself on accident the
perpetrator has been deemed the jigsaw
killer due to the puzzle-piece-shaped
scrap of skin missing from the victim's
body
of course it's pointed out that the
jigsaw killer doesn't actually kill
he just finds creative ways for others
to accidentally kill themselves
and you can't see it right now but i'm
making a vigorous jerking off motion
with my hand
in the next scene we find a man who has
to open a safe using one of the
combinations on the wall
he's been injected with the poison is
covered in a flammable goo
and was only given a tea candle to light
his way it ends predictably
and in the aftermath of this scene it's
revealed that your boy is a watcher
playfully delighting in his victim's
plight and carrie gets to give the big
reveal here that he left behind a pen
light we then transition to dr gordon in
brighter times
as he teaches a group of first years
about inoperable brain tumors
when all they really want to do is find
a nurse's room to orgy as we've all
learned in the years since this movie's
release
the orderly zep then pops in here to let
them know the patient's name is jon
and to infuse the room with his
unsettling vibes
detectives tap and sing call gordon to
his office to ask his whereabouts the
previous evening
or you see his pen light was strangely
found at a crime scene he's a bit coy
with his alibi
as it's attached to infidelity the bane
of every married suspected murderer at
the station we learned that dr gordon's
alibi
checked out but before he goes they
request he listen to amanda's survivor
testimony to see if the details trigger
anything for him
she tells the story of waking up with a
heavy metal contraption on her head a
video pops on letting her know it's
essentially a reverse bear trap with a
timer and the key is in the belly of her
cellmate
in her zeal to escape she leaves the
chair which is what actually initiates
the timer now she's really feeling the
pressure and finds the key master to
still be mostly alive
regardless she plunges in and plays
around with his insides
until she manages to unsheath the key
and release her head
the puppet then rolls out to
congratulate her on what surely has
become a new lease on life
at the station she does confirm that
this was an overall positive experience
as it helped her get off the drugs
as far as she knows it's only been a few
days back in the bathroom they're not
trying to solve this
mystery presuming it to be an intricate
jigsaw style trap
in discussing this violently adam
recognizes that the mirror is actually
made of two-way glass
he starts chucking items at it
eventually revealing a camera behind a
cage
zepp gives them a little wave from the
other side but indicates he is unable to
do anything for them
recognizing all escape angles would be
covered lauren starts focusing on the
details of their instructions
looking for the aforementioned x he
tries to put the fate of his family out
of his mind but can't help but think
back to their last encounter his
daughter diana sought his assistance
with a strange man who was in her room
and talking to her
larry provided a quick room check just
to confirm she's delusional and they
share a tender moment before he's called
back to work
where he's a god then he throws his
wallet to adam so he can diddle the
precious photos with his poop fingers
and as he goes to extract a family photo
he finds another piece of evidence
which he keeps to himself back with the
family we watch him leave under
unfavorable circumstances right before
diana is abducted by a ghost
they're being held hostage by zepp and
we pan out to see that tap is also there
obsessively staking out the doctor from
across the way while
also losing his grip on reality we dive
deeper and watch as the case unfolds and
he begins his obsession leaving his
personal relationships to wither on the
vine but then a eureka moment arises
when he recognizes some background
graffiti that identifies the gang
territory in which the video was filmed
the background sound of a fire alarm
allows them to narrow things down even
further
and soon tap is ready to charge in hot
and warrantless
they find a state-of-the-art workstation
running a 386 with five megabytes of ram
a diorama of a crime scene that we're
familiar with and then the doll from
that video
and below a red velvet blanket a work in
progress they only take a brief glance
over the machinery before hearing
someone return
rather than take him there tap insists
they hang back to catch him doing
something for some reason and the breach
and protocol proves disastrous as it
allows him to trip the trap to provide a
distraction he then gives him a cheeky
little key ring but they don't have time
for that so
sing shoots it into submission in the
confusion jigsaw is able to blade up
tap's throat before running off
zing pursues him shotgunning him in the
back he proceeds carefully but
not observantly as he ends up setting
off a volley a buckshot into the back of
his head
jigsaw then stumbles off to find a new
spaced lease and we're brought back to
modern tap
trying to wrap this case up for the sake
of his fallen comrade back at the room
adam thinks about his secret clue and
tries to manipulate lawrence into
turning off the lights
just turn them off for a second yeah
larry in the dark they find what they
needed and the doctor pops the wall
tiles open to find a little treasure box
of items
inside is a cell phone and some
cigarettes with a note that clearly
implies he could use them to
kill adam instead dr gordon gets on the
horn to call the police
but the phone seems to only be capable
of receiving calls this jogs his memory
of the night he was abducted he was in a
parking garage and
unable to make any outgoing phone calls
before being descended upon by a pig man
after establishing this they have to
work through some trust issues they have
surrounding adam's sudden
intuition he eventually relents and
tosses over the photo
lawrence then goes into his dark place
where he concocts a plan he starts by
dipping the cigarette into the poisonous
blood
and then hitting the light so he can
whisper his plan to adam in private when
the lights come back on he slips at him
an untainted cigarette to puff on and
adam acts his
balls off to make like he's dying
however nothing has left a chance in
this moist dungeon
and a mild electrical current is
introduced into his body
ending the charade it also shakes loose
a couple of adam's mind grapes that
contain his abduction memories
he was having a normal night in the dark
room developing pictures of dr gordon
when he woke up with the power out
naturally he utilized the flash on his
camera to guide him through as one does
and eventually stumbled upon a free
puppet and a terrible pigman then they
get a call from dianam who informs daddy
that the man from her room
is there which really comes across as
kind of a petty i told you so then ally
gets on the line and warns him not to
believe anything adam says as he knew
lawrence before today
when confronted they each get indignant
about which of the two is the biggest
[ __ ] with adam scattering the
evidence to support his point all over
the floor
we see however that dr gordon only went
to the sleazy hotel that evening to tell
his mistress that he wanted to
not have sex with her live your truth
king insistent that the man who hired
adam to follow him around must be the
one responsible for their predicament he
pressures him for whatever info he can
remember
but there was just nothing remarkable
about him whatsoever
no defining characteristic that really
stands out at all
except maybe it means something that he
had a large scar across his neck we then
learned that tap went a little nutty
after losing his partner and has been
investigating dr gordon solely as a
concerned citizen
since he's no longer an officer of the
law the doctor then crumbles to the
floor lamenting his wretched fate while
back at his home old zepp
is getting ready to pack it in for the
night and then time the most important
variable that they haven't yet discussed
runs out ally calls him up to let him
know that he failed but then easily
disarms her persecutor
through the struggle several shots are
fired which sets tap into motion
he lays down some cover fire allowing
the ladies to escape but zepp
is able to momentarily put tap's lights
out allowing him to set the kill routine
before stumbling off with a freshly
conscious tap close behind
back in the room lawrence gets zapped
which pushes him nearly to his limit
then a call comes in and he's driven
mad by his inability to reach it he gets
that crazy look in his eyes and resolves
to do what must be done
and he absolutely ruins his racquetball
career as
adam looks on screaming in terror
meanwhile tap has been following zeph
through town all the way back to the
official lair he catches up with him
and counts off his troubles on his face
and body but ultimately gets shot
concurrently now free the doctor loads
his bullet into the available gun
aims for center mass and takes his shot
not knowing that his family is
actually now safe at the neighbor's
residence then zepp pops in to see how
the boys are getting along and reveals
that the rules of the game
are strict so late kills don't count he
prepares to do lawrence when adam pops
up with the second wind and goes to town
with the tank lit turning his face into
hamburger meat
afterward the two hug it out like
brothers and lawrence resolves to go get
some help
adam passes the time looking for
something useful on zepp's person
and finds that he had his own tape
player and was another mere pawn in the
jigsaw's deadly game
then the dead body begins to move
revealing himself to be the mastermind
and informing adam the key he needs to
escape was right in the tub so he's
surprised he didn't find it and anyway
we learned this is jon from the hospital
dying of terminal cancer and driven to
vengeance against all the able-bodied
individuals who he watched daily
squander their time and fail to
appreciate the preciousness of life
he then gives adam a parting zap and
unrepentantly closes him into the dark
room
with that now established let's get to
the question of whether you could
survive this ordeal this one's a bit of
a toughie
i don't remember much about the rest of
the series but i know it begins to lean
much more heavily on featuring elaborate
traps involving scenarios of moral
dilemmas
honestly there wasn't really much of
that present here it was hinted at but
not fully explored or
featured in most scenarios i point this
out as impactful because in many of the
trap situations
it honestly seemed like they were
manufactured solely with the intent of
causing death with little actual chance
of finding a way to escape or earn your
freedom
the first step to max out your
likelihood for survival would be
as has been discussed before to make
sure you pause a moment to find your
center clarity
piece serenity so you can evaluate your
surroundings many of the traps were set
up like a speed run with the frantic
pace intended to ensure failure in at
least two situations cautious expedience
could have been greatly helpful in
amanda's case jumping up suddenly is
what started her countdown
she had almost unlimited time before
that in the case of detective singh the
cobwebs in the hallway implied jigsaw
took a different path around
indicating high probability of a nearby
trap these key observations were missed
by rushing through recklessly also as
pointed out by dr gordon
most pathways out were already covered
by jigsaw for instance when the drill
trap popped
off my first thought was what this poor
lad was even supposed to do to earn his
freedom or learn from his fate
his chair completely inhibits
interacting with his surroundings
but with others present it seemed like
an easy matter of powering the system
down
even though this is likely a completely
unnecessary factor given the intended
use of the trap
a few brief frames indicate that jigsaw
did install shielding to remove that
possibility
of course this leads to sing employing
his universal problem solver to shoot
this trap's proverbial dick off
unfortunately this is a case of special
use guns would have provided little to
no advantage in any of the other traps
also if we rely on the gun's capacity to
remove problems we'd have to then
acknowledge the concept of problem is
subjective
working just as effectively in service
of jigsaw and then everything would just
turn into a boring old shootout so
given these factors and with little else
to work on were somewhat limited the
safe trap and drill chair are complete
non-starters there is no viable way out
of them
you'd probably have a greater than 65
chance of making it through the wire
cage the victim had two hours there was
no need to rush
the bear trap could be higher or lower
than that depending on whether it would
be an inhibiting factor that you'd have
to hurt someone else
rather than having all the danger
resting with you after that this first
movie doesn't really have many more
traps in the traditional sense i mean do
we consider
sing what about zepp he was in the
middle of his own pizza bomber situation
throughout the entire movie and the
final room was set up to be less about
intricate contrivances
and more about a devastating final
reveal does that count as a trap
if so i can honestly say that i'd check
the toilet tank first to avoid the poop
and if there was nothing in the tank i
would simply die other than that there
are so many circumstances that need to
unfold just right here i'm not sure how
you can predict or affect the outcome
if adam hadn't lost the key it would
have changed how some of the events
unfolded but their objectives were still
the same you would have to have somehow
ended the game
unchained with a loaded gun and some way
of ensuring the door was open
otherwise you're probably going to die
the movie makes it seem like the police
hadn't moved beyond dr gordon as the
main suspect even after jigsaw killed
one of their own
with neither of them having any clear
connection to jon there's no way they
could have figured out the mystery
before time ran out which is really the
most important factor
and is confusingly the one thing that
they rarely ever talked about
the games are set up to accomplish a
task in a particular time or die
remember that zepp was watching and
jigsaw was in there with them and had
his hands on a zapper the only real way
to have gotten out of this
outside of our wildest assumptions was
for dr gordon to acquire the gun and
land a head shot from across the room
with that in mind this is sounding a lot
like a five percent or less scenario
and i am so sorry but i think he would
die before we go i'd like to give a huge
thanks to my donors memorialized in the
hall of head shots
as an fyi i have a website set up where
you can support the channel through
donations or
merch any donation unlocks uncensored
movie reviews of life force and under
the skin
with others to be added over time and if
you enjoyed the video i'd love for you
to become a part of the channel by
subscribing
thanks for watching